---
title: Free Day
author: Spencer
---

QM lecture was cancelled today, so I slept in until noon.

Then I walked to the post office, realized I needed my passport (?!) to claim mail, got some groceries, made myself a big bowl of oatmeal, and went back to the post office.

After unwrapping my residence permit (yay!) I went to the CS building and hit up the Service deskto get my home directory set up for their workstations. I got that working, but realized Iwouldn't be able to use the machines for my ML projects--we each only get 2GB for our home directories.

So, on Andre of the S.D.'s advice, I applied for access to a Master's Lab computer--we'll see about that.

Then I went to an "Zvieri" or get-together with other exchange students. Met some kool new CSfolks--Heiki from Sweden and Sabrina. Also ate lots of chocolate. At the end, hung out with Juyoung and a big group, including a dude named Aman from Eritrea whose parents had fled to Saudi Arabia before he was born. Had some interesting conversation. A number of them had heard about a scandal with an American politician, some New York governor/mayor who had been sexting a young girl. They all seemed to think that this shouldn't affect his political standing--certainly, only the policies mattered? I was a bit surprised by this perspective.

Juyoung went to a tandem language event--oh, guess what, I have a tandem partner to practice German with! We're gonna meet up Friday. So that's exciting :D Walked back to Culmann, made some dinner, went to play basketball. Was tiring in my weakened state but still lots of fun, and I played really well.

Intended to do a little work when I came back, but instead got caught up in solving a math puzzle with Betty :) Then we got challenged to a game of fussball. Finally I hit the hay around 1am.

