---
title: Free Day 2
author: Spencer
---

Made myself oatmeal, drank some scalding cinnamon tea, then off to meet Muriel! It was an English day, and Muriel had an essay to write about the USA or England, so she quizzed me about the culture wars and class dynamics and the root causes of the current discontent! Really fun :D

Then took the bus to Honggerberg for a quantum information lecture. Learned that we're going to get into convex optimization, which is cool. Chatted with Martin for a bit.

Then the day was free! I made myself pizza at Culmann, did a bunch of logistics (I have access to a Master's Lab machine now! I don't need to worry about configuring my own Linux box!!) Then I started working on my log. Ended up putting together some scripts to make new posts AND figuring out how to make a unixFilter compiler in Hakyll that used an image-processing CLI to resize all my images! Got really excited about that. Then actually wrote my log posts. By the time I'd finished it was 6pm.

Then I took an *amazing* short run--it felt really good. Had a snack, read some stuff, off to the Polyterrasse for basketball!

Unfortunately, I got irritated playing basketball, for some as yet not understood psychological reason. I finally managed to calm myself down and take things one point at a time, played a few good games.

By the time me and Eric made it back to Culmann it was pretty late. I ate a delicious bowl of spicy ramen that Yeomin, a Korean girl, had given me. Spiciest thing yet in Switzerland :) Chatted with Juyoung for a bit, then sat down at a table filled with buddies. People were telling stories about mountaineering gone awry--there were surprisingly many "a friend did this" type stories.

Then I baked a wedge of brie and ate it on some bread. And then I played some foosball. Same problem! My head must be messed up and unable to tolerate losing. And of course, I'm too nice to take out my frustration on my opponents, so I just beat myself up. Ah well. This only happens about 1 in 10 or so times that I get involved in something competitive, so I'll just have to take a probabilistic guarantee for now until I understand my brain better. Finally beat Oliver and am able to go to sleep :P
