---
title: Unit Disc
author: Spencer
---

Leeeroy...

Slept in this morning! That felt good. I did a bit of reading over breakfast then headed to Schmitz to sort out my registration. I had a heck of a shock when I registered for 226, and then the guy told me I had 20 credits. He could have told me before he registered! Turns out Margot had registered me for a seminar I was no longer planning to take, without telling me. I saw the implications immediately--tuition forfeiture, and, fuming like mad, went over to physics advising. I couldn't believe it--my schedule almost worked out and now, this!

Fortunately I was able to sort it out with Margot, she sent an email to fiscal services saying it was her fault (how nice of her, the CSE advisers didn't stick their necks out for me last year), and I didn't get charged. Margot was also happy to have finally gotten my postcard from France :)

Bailed outta there, worked a bit at Stevens, had leftover tacos for lunch. Went back for my biophys seminar, which I'm now auditing. The math got intense and I enjoyed it :)

Back to Stevens, nearly finished the physics homework, went through a bunch of email. Then it was off for my first Unit Disc game! I was super pumped. It was a long walk there, so I figured out how to use one of the bike renting services. It was REALLY EASY and CHEAP and the bikes are everywhere!! Got to the fields in a jiffy and practiced a bit. Then, the big showdown with the Mudslingers. I went ham, played pretty well--one guy complimented me on my positioning and I got 2 of our 3 goals. I got too excited once and spiked the frisbee--apparently that warps the disc. Anyway, we still got slaughtered by those darn Mudslingers. Hopefully we'll rematch in the playoffs.

Walked back to Stevens with Peter from Math 33x, was fun to catch up.

Nobody was there, so I hung out at D for a bit with Jacob and Brandon, and got some delicious pho for dinner. Came back, had a long conversation with Trevor which was quite fun, finished the physics homework, which took longer than I expected, then played some live chess. Very exciting and tense games. Wrote this log and hit the hay!

